---
title: Tastier Tomatoes
layout: post
---

**['We broke the tomato and we're using science to fix it'](http://arstechnica.com/science/2013/02/we-broke-the-tomato-and-were-using-science-to-fix-it)**

Ars Technica science editor John Timmer:

> In the words of a panel at the meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of science, we "broke" the tomato by allowing the plant breeders to respond to the needs of farmers, instead of the tomato's end-users: consumers. As a result, their breeding has produced a product that most people don't actually enjoy eating. And that's a public health issue, given that tomato-rich diets have been associated with a variety of beneficial effects.

This article makes me wonder how many other agricultural products have been diluted over the years. That being said, it's refreshing to see people try to produce quality,<sup id='fn1-2013-02-13'><a href="#fn1-2013-02-13">[1]</a></sup> agricultural products at scale.

Farmer's markets and local growers are great, but aren't always practical.<sup id='fn2-2013-02-13'><a href="#fn2-2013-02-13">[2]</a></sup> If commercial growers start to care about these things, everyone will be able to enjoy tastier vegetables and fruits. The article notes that commercial growers have not been convinced to produce these tomatoes, but it's a start.

* * *

<div class="footnotes">
<hr />
<ol>
<li id="fn1-2013-02-13">
<p>I'm not trying to say that all mass-produced agricultural products are of low quality, but there is a major difference between an heirloom tomato and the average tomato at a local grocery store.&nbsp;<a href="#fn1-2013-02-13" class="footnoteBackLink" title="Jump back to footnote 1 in the text.">&#8617;</a></p>
</li>
<li id="fn2-2013-02-13">
<p>Here are a few reasons: Many farmers' markets are closed during the winter; Oranges and kiwis don't grow well in northern climates (and I like oranges and kiwis); There can be supply concerns with local growers, etc.

I like to buy local when I can, but it's not realistic for me to *always* buy local.&nbsp;<a href="#fn2-2013-02-13" class="footnoteBackLink" title="Jump back to footnote 2 in the text.">&#8617;</a></p>
</li>
</ol>
</div>

[1]: #fn1-2013-02-13
[2]: #fn2-2013-02-13</p>   



